# Modeling Fractional Snow Cover Area Using Locally Varying Spatial Models

In mountain regions, snow melt makes a significant contribution to snow water equivalent (SWE). Satellite remote sensing enables measuring snow cover in unreachable mountainous areas. The Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS) satellite constellation produces daily fractional snow cover area (fSCA) images at 500m spatial resolution but for an accurate estimation of SWE a finer resolution fSCA is desirable. Landsat images provide such 30m resolution fSCA images but are only available every 16 days. Due to the lack of availability of images with high spatial and temporal resolution, numerous research concentrate on downscaling MODIS images to the same resolution as Landsat. In this study, we focus on downscaling fSCA in the southern Sierra Nevada mountain range using multinomial logistic regression and a random forest algorithm while incorporating geographical features such as elevation, slope, aspect, windspeed, distance to a barrier and distance to a body of water. In this study we present a new approach on modeling fSCA on a local grid as opposed to one model for the entire study area. Comparison of the proposed local random forest approach to a global random forest approach implemented in a previous study indicates that local random forest decreases the classification error from 8•4% to 7•1% and probabilistic error reduced from 20.4% to 8.7%. Analysis of variable importance indicates that significance of geographical features varies spatially throughout the study extent which suggests that the approach presented in this study is suitable for downscaling MODIS images in a larger study extent where there is a variation in geographical features. The local random forest approach demonstrates a novel method to increase the spatial and temporal resolution of satellite remote sensing data which can be used in a range of applications.
